Hey everybody and welcome to another episode of Forging Titanium. Today we're going to get a look at the dual Android runtimes available in the 1.8.0.1 continuous integration, or CI, build of the Titanium mobile SDK. This build makes both the currently released Rhino javascript interpreter available, as well as the newly integrated v8 interpreter. The v8 interpreter has some pretty significant improvements in terms of performance with Android, which we'll highlight in just a little bit. A big thanks goes out to our platform engineers for this integration, who basically did nothing but sleep and code for a months to get this out to the Titanium development community.For those unfamiliar with Appcelerator's CI builds, here's the link to its website... here you can download and install any of our CI builds, and test them with your code. The latest 1.8.0.1 that we'll be discussing here can be found under the choice of "master"... And here's the link to our wiki article giving the exact steps for downloading and installing a CI build...One thing to note when using CI builds is that they're hot off the presses. These builds have not gone through the rigorous testing involved in an official release, and should likely not be used for production apps. That said, they are your best way to get a look at the latest features and fixes for the Titanium mobile SDK.Also worth noting is that we have included both runtimes in the build, we have not replaced the rhino interpreter for Android. There are a few reasons for this, the first of which is we're still actively working to get the v8 runtime build to its first official release. The bugs are being hunted and there's a list of outstanding issues that need to be addressed before it's official, which can be found in the original post regarding v8 on the Appcelerator developer blog...  The second reason is that the v8 engine integration was made possible by use of the Android NDK. The NDK allows us to make use of native C and C++ code, not run through the Java virtual machine, to deliver v8's engine with a high level of performance. The drawback is that certain features of the NDK require a minimum Android SDK version of 2.2. Talking about "improved performance" is nice, but let's see some real metrics. We've actually made available on our wiki the results of our testing thus far... A quick glance at the first 4 charts shows that v8 offers improvements massive improvements in terms of JSON parsing and table rendering. Even scrolling speeds have received a significant boost. What does all this equal? Smoother, better performing apps on Android without you having to change a thing. You can scroll through here to check out the rest of the stats, all showing the various speed ups with v8...OK, so enough of the backstory, let's see the v8 engine in action. To show off some of the performance enhancements, we're going to use a very simple benchmarking app that will allow us to compare the speed of JSON parsing, table rendering, and scrolling speed between rhino and v8. Before firing it up,though, I just wanna show you really quick how you can switch between the 2 runtimes. If you go to the project in Titanium Studio... and open up the raw tiapp.xml... you'll need to add just a single property to use the rhino interpreter instead of v8, with v8 being the default interpreter in the 1.8.0.1 CI builds. Just add that property, clean your project, rebuild, and you'll be using the rhino runtime instead of v8. Exceedingly simple and very useful for testing your apps against the current and future states of the Titanium mobile SDK.Alright, now on to the demo...##### LIVE VIDEO #####So as you can see, there's _a lot_ to be gained with v8. A multitude of features and functionality are going to be smoother and faster using this runtime. These improvements, along with many other features and fixes, will be coming with the official 1.8.0 release of the Titanium mobile SDK.There's a lot of information accompanying this screencast, so I highly encourage you to check out the links included in the blog post, as well as the source code for the benchmark app. We'll be discussing in more detail the list of things to come with the 1.8.0 release in the coming weeks, so stay tuned. Thanks for checking out this episode of Forging Titanium. See ya next time.