Hey everybody! Welcome to another episode of Forging Titanium! The series took a short hiatus with the new year and Titanium Week, but we hope to get back on track with regular episodes starting today. And to kick off the first episode of the year, we have a coding contest to announce. For your efforts, you'll have a chance to win ***************. All you have to do is write the best Titanium app that makes use of the Box.net cross-platform Titanium module. For more details on exactly how you can enter and get access to the module, check out this link.** OVERLAY CONTEST DETAILS LINK **If that's enough info for you to get started, then see ya later, it's been fun. But for the rest of you who want a crash course in Box, its Titanium module, and a sample app based on it, let's continue on.At a high level, Box is a cloud storage solution that caters to individuals and companies alike. They offer free plans that give up to 5GB of cloud storage to any user, accessible anywhere. You can get your data on the web, your desktop, and even your mobile devices. You even get integrated collaboration, allowing you to create workspaces where multiple people can share, edit, and comment on files.So why are we talking about it in Forging Titanium? Well, because along with this great end user functionality, Box also comes with a robust developer API for both Android and iOS. And guess what? There's a Titanium module for both platforms available in the Appcelerator Open Mobile Marketplace.OK, enough talking about Box, let's get into how you can start using it. The first thing you going to do is go out to the Appcelerator Marketplace and search for the box.net module. or you can go directly to this link:** OVERLAY https://marketplace.appcelerator.com/apps/793 **** MODULE DOWNLOAD INSTRUCTIONS *** Download module* sign up for a box account* get your box developer API key by creating a new box application* create new project for android and ios in TiStudio* copy in the module* extract the module* copy & paste the contents of the android example directory over the current project* add entry for box in tiapp.xml* run itSo there's your crash course for setting up the Box module to work with your Titanium applications. In addition to this, we've also created a slightly more involved sample application to give you more ideas of how you can use it. 