Hey everybody! Welcome to another episode of Forging Titanium. Today we're going to take a look at the new features offered in the latest 1.0.7 release of Titanium Studio. At a glance, the list includes:* A new dashboard configuration wizard to help download, install, and configure your native iOS and Android SDKs* Support for setting both Rhino and V8 as your Android runtime with the 1.8 Mobile SDK* Debugging for the V8 runtime, which was unavailable before this release* A native iOS and Android module creation wizard for building module projects right in Titanium Studio* Titanium API code snippets loaded up and ready to be used with just a few key strokes* and The ability to create rubles, which allow Titanium developers to create reusable templates and samples for their apps.And these are just a few of the over 400 improvements and fixes that went into this release. But rather than continue patting ourselves on the back abut how great it is, let's actually see it in action. We're gonna take a look at exactly how we can use the previously highlighted features.### Dashboard Configuration Wizard Demo ###* how the config wizard in TiStudio.* Talk about how this eases the pain of downloading, installing, and configuring your native Android and iOS SDKs. Appcelerator makes a process that is difficult for even native developers _much_ easier.**DEMO:** Run and narrate video**DEMO:** Create a mobile project showing both android and ios available for builds### Dual Runtime configuration demo ###* Easily configure your Titanium Android apps to run against the existing Rhino Javascript interpreter, or the blistering performance enhancements of the newly integrated V8 engine.* Both are available because although V8 outperforms Rhino in almost every way, it is brand new and our platform team is still feverishly attacking the TODO list and ironing out the wrinkles before it's officially released.* mention the prior blog post about tiapp.xml toggling runtimes.**DEMO:** Go to the previously created sample and toggle between runtimes.### Debugging with V8 demo ###* A big part of the aforementioned TODO list with V8 was delivering the power of mobile debugging to the runtime. With Titanium Studio 1.0.7, that is now possible**DEMO:** Set a breakpoint in the default project and debug with android. Show debug, variables and expressions tabs ### Module Creation Demo ###* No more command line voodoo when building Android and iOS modules. * Module project creation is now built right into Titanium Studio for both platforms* A deep discussion of module dev is beyond the scope of this screencast, but be sure to check out the wiki articles on the subject. Also, in the beginning of January, one of the meny webinars we are having for Titanium Week is specifically about module development, so you'll definitely want to check that out as well.**DEMO:** Create an ios module and run the example project### Integrated Titanium snippets demo ###* Generate code for a multitude of Titanium APIs with just a few key strokes. * Rather than having to dig through KS, they are available to you right in Titanium Studio.**DEMO:** Open up titanium studio and show the commands menu, as well as the ability to create the snippets with just key strokes.### Rubles demo ###* You can now integrate templates and samples directly into Titanium Studio. * Reuse common development patterns in your apps via rubles.**DEMO:** Create the default ruble for a project. Change the name, type, and description to indicate its for titanium mobile. Replace the default ZIP file, perhaps with one of the templates from the appcelerator rubles repo. Create a new app with it.### Back to script ###In this episode of Forging Titanium we got a look at the latest and greatest from Titanium Studio 1.0.7. All the new features and fixes are sure to make your Titanium development even better. You've probably also noted that a good bit of these advances move right in lock step with the Titanium Mobile 1.8 release. Keep your eyes open for even _more_ of that in the coming weeks. We're working towards a GA release of 1.8 soon. Following that you can expect vast amount of content from us regarding every aspect of the latest SDK. For more details on that, be sure to check out the "Titanium Week" link included in this blog post.Thanks for checking out this episode of Forging Titanium, see ya next time!  