Hey everybody! Welcome to another episode of Forging Titanium. Today we'll be talking about the 1.8 release of the Titanium Mobile SDK. While a few of you may be content to just hear me talk about it, I'm sure the rest of you want to get your hands on it. There's a link in the accompanying blog post for getting yourself set up with both Titanium Mobile 1.8 and Titanium Studio 1.0.7.In 1.8 there's a strong focus on increasing the performance and parity of the Titanium SDK. Our team took some huge steps in that direction with this release, so let's dig into a few of them now.### V8/Rhino demo ###The biggest enhancement available in 1.8 is the newly integrated V8 Javascript engine for Titanium Android apps. We're going to go over it here, but if you want an even more in depth analysis, check out Forging Titanium Episode 17, it covers the new v8 integration exhaustively.The inclusion of this runtime allows for massive performance improvements in many areas of Titanium development. Just at a quick glance we can see how V8 outperforms the legacy Rhino interpreter in such common operations as JSON parsing, table rendering, and scrolling. These benchmarks put Android right on par with iOS in terms of performance, even in some cases surpassing it. * Kept rhino for legacy code/devices that do not support V8 (less than Android 2.2)* configurable in TiStudio 1.0.7**LIVE DEMO:**Show a quick comparison of the speed_v8 app against both runtimes. Mention the previously recorded episode 17### Mobile Web BETA demo ###Another big feature is that the mobile web beta SDK is now integrated into the Titanium Mobile SDK. When you use Titanium Mobile 1.8 now, you automatically will have access to build mobile web projects in Titanium Studio.If you don't know already, the main goal of the mobile SDK is to allow Titanium developers to use the APIs they are familiar with to build mobile websites for HTML5 compliant browsers. The goal is to be able to deliver not only native apps to iOS and Android from a single code base, but also now to the browser. With this you can seamlessly extend the reach of your Titanium code.As I've already stated, mobile web is currently in beta. For this reason, it's expected there may be a few bumps on the road in developing with it as we continue to add features and stability to the new SDK. Input from you, the Titanium community, will be critical in a future successful production release.Just so you can get a sense of how you can develop both native and web-based apps from the same workflow, let's do a quick build of the default project for all platforms... **LIVE DEMO:** Show how to create the basic 2 tabbed app with TiStudio 1.0.7. Show for ios, android, and browsers.### Longpress & Pinch demo ###We've add some new gestures to Titanium. We now officially support the longpress event on all views. This means no more workarounds involving timing your touch events. It is fully integrated now. Also, iOS now has access to the pinch event. Users can pinch and zoom in your Titanium apps, and you'll receive events allowing you to react to this user interaction. This is a powerful multitouch gesture that we plan to bring to our other supported platforms very soon.Let's take a look at a very basic sample app that demonstrates these new gestures...* Documentation will be made available in the API docs upon 1.8's release**LIVE DEMO:** Demo the test_longpress_pinch app and show the simple code necessary to grab these values### Embeddable Android VideoPlayer demo ###Another big parity improvement is that you can now embed VideoPlayers in Titanium Android apps just as you could with iOS to this point. Prior to 1.8, Android VideoPlayers could only be viewed fullscreen. Now you can use them just as any other component in your view hierarchy.Let's see just how that works now in our Titanium apps...**LIVE DEMO:** demo the test_videoplayer app, emphasizing that identical code is now used for both android and ios### Back to script ###Along with these cool new features and parity alignments, there were a ton of other fixes and improvements. We've also dramatically improved XML DOM Level 2 support for your XML handling. This specification is now fully supported on both Android and iOS. In addition, we've kept our eye on important platform specific features. iOS 5.0.1 introduced a new file attribute that allows you to prevent files from being backed up to iCloud or iTunes. Titanium now supports that attribute through our `Titanium.Filesystem.File.remoteBackup` property. So you now have full control over how your filesystem is backed up in your iOS apps.The end goal of 1.8 is for Titanium developers to have a higher quality development experience on _all_ the platforms we support. We're aiming to deliver that through careful attention to performance and parity. We intend to maintain this focus through all our future releases as well.Thanks for checking out this episode of Forging Titanium! See ya next time!